README.md, before:

# Crypthings

A collection of various encryption ciphers, utilities, and tools written in C.

`git clone https://github.com/lwvmobile/crypthings.git --recursive`

Open the crypthings/compiled folder and run `sh gcc-compile.sh` to compile tools for Linux.
Run with `./aes-ofb-crypt.o` in the terminal.

Run `sh cross-compile.sh` to cross compile on Linux platform to Windows as .exe files.
Windows users, precompiled exe files will be available under releases.

## Information and Resources, Test Vectors, Etc.

NIST Cryptographic Standards and Guidelines
[NIST Guidelines](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-standards-and-guidelines/ "NIST Guidelines")

FIPS Publication 81 DES Modes of Operation
[FIPS 81](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/FIPS/fipspub81.pdf "FIPS 81")

Recommendation for the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm (TDEA) Block Cipher (Triple DES)
[NIST 800-67r2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-67r2.pdf "NIST  800-67r2")

Test Vectors for TDEA/Triple DES
[TDEA Examples](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/Cryptographic-Standards-and-Guidelines/documents/examples/TDES_ModesA_All.pdf "TDEA Examples")

Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods and Techniques (AES and Test Vectors)
[NIST 800-38A](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38a.pdf "NIST  800-38A")

Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods for Key Wrapping
[NIST 800-38F](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-38F.pdf "NIST 800-38F")

Test Vectors For Key Wrap Algorithms
[Key Wrap Examples](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/Cryptographic-Standards-and-Guidelines/documents/examples/key-wrapping-KW-KWP.pdf "Key Wrap Examples")

Commit message:

Add README for crypthings programs overviews;

README.md, after:

# Crypthings

A collection of various encryption ciphers, utilities, and tools written in C.

`git clone https://github.com/lwvmobile/crypthings.git --recursive`

Open the crypthings/compiled folder and run `sh gcc-compile.sh` to compile tools for Linux.
Run with `./aes-ofb-crypt.o` in the terminal, for example.

Run `sh cross-compile.sh` to cross compile on Linux platform to Windows as .exe files.
Windows users, precompiled exe files will be available under releases.

See the README.md file in the crypthings folder for more information on Crypthings programs.

## Information and Resources, Test Vectors, Etc.

NIST Cryptographic Standards and Guidelines
[NIST Guidelines](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-standards-and-guidelines/ "NIST Guidelines")

FIPS Publication 81 DES Modes of Operation
[FIPS 81](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/FIPS/fipspub81.pdf "FIPS 81")

Recommendation for the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm (TDEA) Block Cipher (Triple DES)
[NIST 800-67r2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-67r2.pdf "NIST  800-67r2")

Test Vectors for TDEA/Triple DES
[TDEA Examples](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/Cryptographic-Standards-and-Guidelines/documents/examples/TDES_ModesA_All.pdf "TDEA Examples")

Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods and Techniques (AES and Test Vectors)
[NIST 800-38A](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38a.pdf "NIST  800-38A")

Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Methods for Key Wrapping
[NIST 800-38F](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-38F.pdf "NIST 800-38F")

Test Vectors For Key Wrap Algorithms
[Key Wrap Examples](https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/Cryptographic-Standards-and-Guidelines/documents/examples/key-wrapping-KW-KWP.pdf "Key Wrap Examples")
